# Executive Summary
The purpose of Lab 4 was to learn about cybersecurity, web pages, and file compression. Through the lab, cybersecurity was shown to have roots in encryption of data in order to ensure that important information isn't leaked by using private and public keys, along with secure HTTPS IP addresses. The lab also demonstrates how to create a basic website using HTML, how to incorporate images, and how to use CSS to change how the text and images are displayed. Finally, the lab touches on the idea of compressing files in order to send and store files so they take up less storage or "space" on a device.

## Cybersecurity and Encryption
### Information Systems Security
**Information Security Triad CIA** - As a part of the amazon.com online chat, the confidentiality aspect would affect my job because what is said in the chat by the customer would be kept confidential (not telling others about it), unless the someone that needs to know requests it by the proper protocols. The integrity portion can be seen as the employee needs to honestly chart and document the issues in the chat and not make up data or discount the customer based on their own biases. Avaliability comes into play when the company has to make sure that customers can access the help they need and the employees in the chat can access the data they need in order to help the customer.
**Authentification** - Three tasks that require authentification are signing into Gmail, logining into Blackboard, and turning on (getting into) your phone. You could make these into multi-factor identification by making Gmail require you to verify from your phone via a text that contains a code that it is you, Blackboard requiring you to input a code from an email, or your phone using both your password and your FaceId in order to turn it on.
**ACL & RBAC** - ACL, or Access Control List, allows a manager to give each user certain permissions, and this is simple and easy to understand, but it can be tedious as each individual is done seperately. On the other hand, RBAC, or Role Based Access Control, is more complex as it assigns employees roles and then assigns roles certain permissions, but it allows more security and easier control over who has permissions.
**Ciphers** - Cipher text is what the encoded data sent to the customer's computer is called, as the data is encrypted using a cipher. The public key is what is used by your computer in order to send an encrypted message to another computer. A private key is what the computer that receives the message uses in order to decode the text.
**Public Key Necessity** - We need public key cryptology because it allows companies and individuals to send information to each other without having to create a shared code and without the worry that someone else will be able to intercept their data.
### Cryptography
**Caesar Cipher** - The Caesar cipher is a cipher in which the letters are all shifted by the same amount, however it is not the most secure type of cipher as it can be easily solved by brute force.
**Frequency Fingerprint Exploration** - The result of this is that the most common letters used in English are E, T, and A, and with the longer the message, the more likely that is to be true. However, with different languages this will not be exactly the same as the words have different frequencies and some languages have letters the English doesn't have, such as ll, rr, and ñ in Spanish.
**Polyalphabetic Cipher** - A polyalphabetic cipher is a cipher that has a lighter fingerprint by using a whole word in order to shift rather than just one letter, however there is still the possibility of breaking into it.
**Polyalphabetic Cipher Exploration** - The result of the exploration is that this cipher is much more safe than the caesar cipher, and that the longer the shift word the more difficult it is to figure out what the message was originally.
### Brute-Force
Brute force is using a computer program (or extereme effort) to figure out the message without having the key for the cipher. It relates to Kerckhoffs's principle because it proves that it is neccessary to have a system that is secure so that even if everyone knows how to perform the cipher, the information that it contains is still safe.

## Internet Architecture
### Internet Protocol
An IP address is a number that is used in order to uniquely label different devices. IPv4 is an older version of an IP Address, but it was too small with only 32 bits for data and allowing about 4.29 billion devices, so IPv6 was created in order to have more IP Addresses by using a 128-bit address, allowing for many more unique IP addresses. ICANN is the non-profit organization that is responsible for the distribution of IP addresses, allowing people accross the globe to access the internet.
### TCP/IP
The responsibility of TCP/IP, or Transmission Control Protocol / Internet Protocol, was initially to connect government computer systems to each other, but now is open to the public and is more commonly referred to as "the Internet". The client-server model applies to TCP/IP because the client is the computer that makes a request to the server, and the server is the one who receives the request and accepts or denies the request. Layers are important to changing technology because it allows one layer to be changed without affecting all of teh other layers, which makes changing technology much easier and more efficient. Applications that run on the application layer are mostly software and network applications such as FTP, and HTTP.
### Internet Security
HTTP, or hypertext transfer protocol, is the protocol that is used in order to view websites on the internet, and it uses the client-server model as the client side computer inputs a request to the server for information from a certain IP Address in order to show the website on the computer, and the server responds with information in order to display the website. The protocol that HTTP uses to secure data is that they created HTTPS, or secure HTTP, in order to encrypt the data being sent to the server so that the data is impossible to read while it is going through the public domain.
### Securing your Web Browser
You should secure your browser because it allows you to prevent spyware and viruses from being downloaded onto your devices. One of the risks is downloading a Java applet as they don't have a secure procedure for checking if their is malware or viruses in the applet, which could allow the creater to download Trojan or other spyware onto your computer and then steal your data.

## Internet Programming
### World Wide Web Consortium
Tim Berners-Lee is an English engineer and the inventor of the World Wide Web, and he helped create W3C in order to write web standards and regulate how the World Wide Web should work and to collaborate with others working in the development of the web around the world. The standard that intrigued me was the "Web of Devices- Mobile Web" and this is important because it details the idealistic concept of how web development for mobile devices should be, but it also puts standards about how it should be done for now.
### HTML5 and CSS
The purpose of HTML5 is to create the content of the website, allowing you to display words and data, whereas the purpose of CSS is allowing you to modify how that data shows up on the screen. The approach I took with the website is to start off with HTML in order to get the basic content down, then to use CSS in order to mess around adn change the appearance of the website once the data was displayed.
### HTML and XML
XML differs from HTML because XML carries data whereas HTML displays the data. Additionally, the coding of XML is different because there are no predefinded tags like there are in HTML.

## Components of a URL
**Scheme** - https. They are related because a scheme is the part of the URL that tells you device what application to use to open the URL. 
**Domain** - www.amazon.com . It is related because it is the main body of the URL and can tell you information about the site that you are going to.
**Top level domain** - .edu . It is related because the top level domain tells you about what type of site it is such as .gov, .com, .net, or .edu.
**Default page** - No file path provided. It is related because the file path allows the deivce to find the page, but if there is no file path provided, then it goes to the default page.
**Parameters** - Result of search. It is related because the parameters are a string of characters that help the computer locate the information and data that it needs.
**Anchor** -  Specific location on the page. It is related because the anchor is what tells the browser what part of the page to display.
**Example** - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9OkBjvXt9lc&list=PLoGgviqq4847VRWTPXkDwxeVvNNfoKD7J&index=31. "https" - scheme. "www.youtube.com" - domain. ".com" - TLP. "/watch" - file path. "9OkBjvXt9lc&list" - Parameters. No anchor.

## File Compression
The purpose of file compression is to make a file take up less storage space so it can be transfered more easily from computer to computer, and to allow it to not use as much storage if the computer is running low on storage. It also allows you to combine several files and zip them into a compressed folder. The .svg file was 207,252 bytes uncompressed and it went down to 110,720 bytes, so compressed about 1/2 of the size. On the other hand, a JPG file would compress a lot more than that due to being a highly compressable file type.

## Conclusion
Through this lab, I learned a lot about how encryption methods work daily without our awareness in order to keep our data secure and prevent others from being able to "steal" or intercept and decode important information. Additionally, I enjoyed the modules on building the website as I have used HTML and CSS in the past, but this course allowed me to experiment with them in a much more free-form, hands-on type of way. Finally, I thought that learning about file compression and expansion would be a very useful skill to have under my belt going forward, and I can't wait to see what the next and final week of this course has in store!
